README.md, before:

# gcode_power_splitter

Split gcode into blocks of layers for 3D printing in multiple stages

Usage: `./gcode_split.pl MYFILE.gcode`

It produces `MYFILE.0.gcode`, `MYFILE.1.gcode` etc. for the parts, which
are horizontal slices of roughly equal height.

The main aim of this script is to produce gcode parts that can be printed in sessions,
even allowing powering down the 3D printer between sessions.

Configuration values are set at the beginning of the script.

It completely replaces the start and end gcode snippets. These are defined
in `get_begin()` and `get_end()` and may require changes for your printer.
`get_after_layer()` is added after the 1st layer in a part.

The code was written to split Cura-generated gcode files.
Among others, it relies on `; LAYER` comments to identify layers,
and only parses gcode commands that are necessary for its function.
It is also limited to the types of gcode Cura generates, e.g.
it does not parse logical coordinates (`G92`).

It makes best effort to throw errors if it encounters gcode it
was not designed to process.

## Features

- Approach the printed part from above when continuing so as not to knock it

- Limit homing to X and Y as Z-homing generally moves the head to the middle of the bed

- Allow prepping the nozzle in the air in case there is not enough room on the bed (configurable - requires the user to remove the extruded filament)

- Print the first layer slowly and (optionally) at the initial higher temperature when continuing for better adhesion

- Optionally retrace (iron) the last printed layer to melt it for better adhesion

Commit message:

Track print time and allow splitting by time

README.md, after:

# gcode_power_splitter

Split gcode into blocks of layers for 3D printing in multiple stages

Usage: `./gcode_split.pl MYFILE.gcode`

It produces `MYFILE.0.gcode`, `MYFILE.1.gcode` etc. for the parts, which
are horizontal slices of roughly equal height or of roughly equal printing time.

The main aim of this script is to produce gcode parts that can be printed in sessions,
even allowing powering down the 3D printer between sessions.

Configuration values are set at the beginning of the script.

It completely replaces the start and end gcode snippets. These are defined
in `get_begin()` and `get_end()` and may require changes for your printer.
`get_after_layer()` is added after the 1st layer in a part.

The code was written to split Cura-generated gcode files.
Among others, it relies on `; LAYER` comments to identify layers,
and only parses gcode commands that are necessary for its function.
It is also limited to the types of gcode Cura generates, e.g.
it does not parse logical coordinates (`G92`).

It makes best effort to throw errors if it encounters gcode it
was not designed to process.

## Features

- Track printing time

- Approach the printed part from above when continuing so as not to knock it

- Limit homing to X and Y as Z-homing generally moves the head to the middle of the bed

- Allow prepping the nozzle in the air in case there is not enough room on the bed (configurable - requires the user to remove the extruded filament)

- Print the first layer slowly and (optionally) at the initial higher temperature when continuing for better adhesion

- Optionally retrace (iron) the last printed layer to melt it for better adhesion
